Would you turn with me to Genesis chapter 44, chapter by chapter, verse by verse?
We don't have a Bible again, raise your hand.
We'll get you a Bible, you follow along as we go chapter by chapter verse by verse.
Here, beautiful word of God, the title of the message is mercy.
And we're gonna see mercy here.
We'll see the brothers head home and entering in the one last test versus one through nine.
Benjamin is called guilty.
You know the cups in his basket, bucket, but united, the brothers will stand amazing after 20 plus years.
Finally, a united nation of Israel.
And here we are, 4,000 years later, they're still standing together, even through everything that they've been through.
And then lastly, verse 14 through 34, we're gonna see Judah interceding for the family, and we're gonna see God can finally really work when we become real with God.
So Father, again, we praise You, and we thank You, and we pray, let Your Word come alive, let Your Spirit fall and move here.
Lord, let me get out of Your way.
Let your word just come straight from the throne of God, the heart of God, illuminate it.
Your very heart for us.
And Lord, we love your word as it leads us, as a lamp unto our feet.
And Lord, would you take the word and do what you want to do in us, transforming us from glory to greater glory to be your image bearers?
and let that reflect into the lost and dying world, let it reflect into our homes and our family and our marriages and our relationships.
What a passage of relationships that we see here as a family, as messed up as this one, becoming one is what a demonstration of what you can do when we just step aside and trust you.
So Lord, take us away and have your way.
We pray in your name, amen.
And we start with the brother's head home entering into one last test, verse one, and he commanded the steward of his house.
So they just had dinner.
All were married, verse 34 of chapter 43.
Everyone's in a wonderful mood.
They wake up and verse one, and he commanded the steward of his house saying, fill the men's sack with food as much as they can carry and put each man money in the mouth of his sack.
So the title of the message is Mercy.
originally my title was the old money in the sack trick that's uh... here they fall for this money in the sack trick again that's a little hilarious to me if it was me after the last time this happened before i loaded up i'm like i'm going through the sack and i'm making sure that you know whoever that last guy was the steward or whoever he didn't get the memo that he's supposed to take the money and put it in the treasury somehow put it in here i don't want that same guy touching our stuff we're gonna double check and make sure that uh... that money
he's not in the sack again and, you know, and we can head home.
That great theologian, that great theologian, Gomer Powell, said, Fool me once, shame on you, fool me twice, shame on me.
And so here they go, the old money in the sack trick.
Well, verse two says,
Also put my cup, the silver cup, in the mouth of the sack of the youngest and his grain of money.
So he did according to the word that Joseph had spoken.
By no means does Joseph use the Devination Cup.
We know that he's a man who speaks with the Lord, has been led by the Lord, has been given dreams and visions of the Lord.
He's spent 20 years in the school of tears, the seminary of heartbreak.
And here he is with this
so-called Devination Cup, but that's what Egypt believes.
So they give it to him, they go, hey, here you go, you're second in command, Pharaoh's God, therefore you're like a prophet.
And so they give it to him.
And I think Joseph keeps his car keys in it and place where he keeps his gum that he puts in his pocket and stuff like that.
It sits on his desk.
Obviously he has no regard for it, but it's interesting again, it's silver.
It's 20 pieces of silver that Joseph was sold for and all of how these things weave themselves together.
But you know, it does make me think of, and I think you do to get divination cups from people.
Well-meaning.
Well-meaning to Joseph from Egypt and the, you know, he married the priest of the,
the daughter of the priest of Egypt, like, hey, here's my cup, here's one for you.
We're on this spiritual thing together.
And I think, you know, people try to relate to us when they know that we're spiritual.
We read the word, we speak of Jesus.
They are spiritual if you would, but they are not relational with the Lord.
So then they come along, they see you, and they wanna talk spiritually with you, and God bless them for that in that manner, and then maybe they give you a book, and they give you this book, and you go, mm, okay, I don't need advice from Dr. Phil, or hey, there's this great spiritual book about the Oprah latest book club and stuff like that, mm, okay.
And so, you know what I found, and this is where I go with it, is
I don't come across unthankful and I don't come across like, you know, that's just, you know, that's heresy.
That's just, you know, what do you read that stuff for?
I was, okay, you know, I got a lot of books, you know, thank you for thinking of me and this type of thing.
And so, you know what it is to me?
They're trying to connect to you.
They're trying to connect to me through spiritual things.
This gives us this great opportunity to come back later and come back
and go, you know, thank you for thinking of me and the book that you gave me.
And whether they have a Bible or not, you don't need to ask them.
Don't worry about asking if they have a Bible.
Come here and we have these Bibles.
Get their name.
They're your friends.
So you know who their name is.
Get their name exactly.
Write it down very clear.
Give it the Paul in the back and
we will engrave a Bible with their name on it.
And then in the cover, we have this sticker, Isaiah 49, 16, see, have I not inscribed you on the palm of my hands?
Beautiful passage.
And then in the back, we have the gospel sticker.
And then down here, God's promises for a hard time crisis, this and that.
And the point is then you get to go back to them and you go, thank you for thinking to me.
This is my greatest treasure and I want to give one to you.
And then we use this as this opportunity to connect with them.
And then I'll say now because they gave you something so-called divination.
Now you get something, you come, oh, so I was reading Genesis 44.
I'm amazed at Joseph's mercy.
Ever want mercy?
I mean, the doors just open for us in these type of things.
So use it as an opportunity to connect with them.
So then verse three through six.
As soon as the morning dawn, the men were sent away, they and their donkeys.
When they had gone out of the city and were not yet far off, Joseph said to a steward, get up, follow these men, and when you overtake them, say to them, why have you repaid evil for good?
Is not this the one from which my Lord drinks?
and with which he indeed practices divination, you have done evil and so doing.
So he overtook them and he spoke to them in the same words.
So the steward does, as he's told to do, it's this setup for one last test that Joseph threw the Lord, showing them their heart to Joseph, but showing their heart to one another.
And the thing that we're going to see here is God's just breaking them.
God's bringing them face to face with their past of what they did to Joseph.
He's bringing them face to face of their individuality of self-seeking, self oneness for themselves and not a united for the family.
God has to unite this family because he's going to bring 70 of them in here in the chapter two and he's going to bring them into Egypt and 400 years later the greatest nation in the world.
We are the greatest nation.
in prosperity and power and this and that, but the greatest nation in the world is the nation that God has built called Israel.
Because they are the apple of his eye and he uses them for very specific purposes, which is a whole Bible study through these type of things.
One of them is that we read in Romans, through them will come the Word of God that has changed every one of our lives.
Through them will come the Messiah who has
given us life everlasting.
And through the nation of Israel, we see a picture of God saying, I am faithful and I will never leave you nor forsake you.
And what a promise we see all that they've been through and yet Israel still stands.
It's over seven through nine.
And they said to him, why does my Lord say these words, far be it from us that your servant should do such a thing?
Look, we brought back to you
from the land of Canaan, the money which we found in the mouth of our sack.
How then could we still silver gold from your Lord's house with whomever of your servants?
It is found, let him die.
And we also with my will be my Lord's slaves.
So they're using logic here and they're saying, look, you know,
We got back to Canaan last time.
The money was still in our sack.
When we came back this time, we brought the money that didn't get paid last time.
We brought money again to buy grain this time.
We're just showing that we're honest.
We have this integrity, besides selling our brother.
But other than that, we have this integrity.
Reason enough says the fact that we brought the money back should show that we're not thieves.
It makes me ponder these things.
You know, Joseph knows these things, but, you know, the Bible says, humble yourself in the sight of the Lord, and He will lift you up.
Humble yourself.
Humility.
The 1% probability, possibility that they could be wrong.
The
1% possibility that you could possibly be wrong in something.
If you want to flip, because I didn't bring in Ephesians chapter 4, would you flip there with me?
Ephesians, keep your finger in Genesis 44,
But Ephesians 4, chapter 4, verse 30 through 32.
If you were here with us Wednesday night, men, I'm going to touch on these things again because when you read the Scriptures, Abraham, Abraham.
Saul, Saul, Paul, Paul.
God has to speak to men twice.
It's clearly, it's scriptural.
And so if you hear twice, you need to hear it again because you're a man.
Women, you just need to hear this once.
So that's how the Lord works here.
But I just see such a power in this verse.
I mean, my brother, we were talking last week, how many relationships
whether it's between church brothers and sisters, husbands and wife, parents and children.
How many relationships would not have imploded, divided, been destroyed?
If Ephesians 4, 30, 31 and 32 was soaked deep into the heart and stood upon and acted upon, Ephesians 4 verse 30.
The context is
unity, the context of the chapters putting off the old man and putting on the new man, the new woman.
The context is not to grieve the Holy Spirit could teach the whole chapter, but I just want to look at verse 30 through 32 and do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption.
That seal is an image bearer.
You and I are image bearers and back from
created to in the womb image bear this that's
Take wax, put it upon a possession, and then take the signant ring and press the image of the owner into that wax.
And when it dries, everybody knows this seal is under the ownership of this signant bearer.
And here the Lord speaks to us as those who have been sealed by the Holy Spirit when we gave our life to Jesus Christ.
And Ephesians 1 says, we were sealed with the Holy Spirit.
It's a down payment, but it's also
as much as a seal that goes on this one's mind, which by the way, devil, this one's mind.
You've got to get through me if you want to get through them.
And our God will let those things through as we look at the life of, you know, Job and these type of things.
Joseph, this one's mind, I own them.
But then the point is
He's gonna say, and here's what will grieve the Holy Spirit.
It grieves the Holy Spirit because it grieves His heart when we don't obey His command.
It grieves the Holy Spirit when He watches what it does when we do it to one another.
Verse 30 says, in verse 30, do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption.
Here's what grieves the Holy Spirit.
Let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice.
Put malice away as well.
All these notes are attached to the video and audio that goes out on the various streams that we do.
But bitterness means sharpness, acid, pungent.
Another poisonous.
bitterness of taste or spirit, resentful animosity that poisons relationships.
And he says, you want to grieve the Holy Spirit, let that seek into any relationship that you have.
Saved or unsaved person that's in your life.
Put it away.
Wrath, root meaning, boiling, agitation, passionate, outburst,
You can see the Greek word, there's where we get our word, thermos, thermal, thermos.
It's an eruption like a volcano that there's this raft that happens for whatever the situation that becomes, and I'm tying this back to what if it's the 1% possibility that we were wrong and the way we respond that we find that we were actually wrong.
But there's more.
anger, put away anger.
This word for anger or yay, it's a settled indignation, lasting resentment.
It's the slow boil.
And you know, you can be both, but sometimes you find the personality, you're either.
There's this place that you can be this explosive outburasting.
I blow up and then I'm done.
But then there's this place that there's this
slow continually simmering that just keeps carrying.
And I see a progression here.
It just keeps carrying this bitterness, this resentfulness, this poison, this acid, this pungentness.
And then it goes on again with the anger that we look at here, the deliberate kind of anger that nurses a grudge
Now, what I'm going to say is theological in a summation, not that I'm going to say, oh, there's a Bible verse that says this, but here's what I find in the summation of reading the pearls of the doctrine of anger and together.
And that is this behind all anger is fear because you fear.
something.
I fear something.
And it becomes a natural defense mechanism.
And the anger might be, I fear losing control.
I fear losing respect.
I fear losing, and you fill in the blank, of this relationship, of this
Trust in the money or my reputation.
You fill in the blank, but behind all that anger I find is fear of something.
And you know what it ultimately comes down to?
For you, for me, trust.
And you can say, you know what?
I don't trust that person.
Can I say this?
You don't trust the Lord.
That's who you don't trust.
I'm speaking from a person who can speak not from the positive, but from the negative.
So I'm just speaking of what I know about myself and lack of humility and what I know of myself with verse 30, 31, 32.
Don't trust the Lord.
Trust the Lord.
Lean out on your own understanding and all your ways acknowledge him.
He'll direct the path.
You know what, Lord?
I don't trust that you can do this, protect this, guard this, and therefore I'm going to have to step in and take care of it.
And that's why I put myself and guard myself and wrap myself in these type of things.
And it's not, I don't trust that person.
And we're going to see this through Joseph.
We're going to see the title of the message is Mercy.
I'll talk about that when we get to the end.
But it just comes, I don't trust you, Lord, that you can protect this situation.
The most freeing place is when you go, you know what, Lord?
No matter what, I'm going to trust you.
I'm going to put my hand, my life into your hands, Lord, and no matter what, know that you're going to take care of me.
And you know what?
He will every time.
Oh, there's going to be hurt.
There's going to be pain.
But then God's going to do something mighty through this.
And then the other, it goes on to say, it says the word clamor, that's loud shouting.
You know that the argument, so you know that you've lost, let's me put it that way, if you have to yell.
You're just like, if you scream, you've lost, because it's obvious you've lost control.
And the anger has overtaken you, you're no longer under the spirit of God, you're grieving the Holy Spirit,
And you might just feel, I know that I know that I'm right.
And God might just come and say to you, you know, you might have that 1% probability that you're wrong.
And you've just exploded this and now
There you go.
You're down this path.
And how do you recover from this path?
And then it goes on and says, evil speaking.
And that's slander, abusive speech, defamation, blasphemy.
It comes against this person.
And it could, evil speaking, usually carries in your conversation that you have with yourself to justify.
Or you go and you find somebody who rallies against with you against this situation.
Then malice.
And the root meaning of malice is literally desiring ill will, that ill will that this person gets what's coming to them.
And, you know, Genesis 44, we're just going to see this is not the heart of Joseph.
Joseph is a pitcher of our greater than Joseph, Jesus Christ, who comes, these boys are guilty.
They are 100% wrong.
They give no mercy.
They gave no grace.
They had no love.
And Joseph in the end shows up and gives them mercy.
In chapter 45, next week's message, perfect baptism passage, because we're going to talk about, it'll start with forgiveness.
Paul's progression.
Look at that.
bitterness, internal, wrath, boiling emotion, angered, settled hostility, clamor, verbal outbursts, evil speaking, destructive word, malice, evil intent.
This shows the growth pattern of unrestrained resentment, which starts as bitterness inside and ends in malice towards one another.
That's what grieves the Holy Spirit.
And then he comes and he doesn't leave us in that.
He comes and goes, I can give you a place in the middle of that moment to just flip it and you go, I have my choice.
I can be angry, bitter, explode, bitter, poisonous in this type, or I can do what pleases the Holy Spirit.
Because it's put off this, therefore we put on the new man context of Ephesians chapter four and verse 32 says, and be kind to one another.
tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God in Christ forgave you."
That's the catch.
Oh, Lord, it's so masterful.
You know, forgive one another.
Oh, they don't deserve, as I forgave you.
Oh, man.
If I forgave you, what place do you have not to forgive?
Oh, Lord, He's the perfect debate.
No one will ever win a debate against Him.
B, I love that word.
It says, the verb tense and the verb pattern that it has here is continually become.
Keep on being this.
What do we do to keep on being kind?
And the word is gracious, good, gentle, benevolent.
Just keep on being kind, regardless.
Nowhere is this about the right or the wrong.
It's like, just keep being kind.
Even if they're wrong, doesn't mean that God will take care of them.
be tender-hearted, root meaning there, which having good its compassion, sympathetic, full of mercy, but the way that the word was used and what separates it from kind is the tender heart.
It speaks of from the inner core of your being, like it speaks of the seed of your
passion, the belly, it would speak of the bowels.
We don't talk like that anymore, but it's speaking of from the very depths of your heart, like it stirs your very emotions that your whole body reacts to this of the tender heartedness that you're going to give somebody.
Forgiving one another, that's Keros.
Godly favor grace, send it away.
That's what's being spoken of.
And then He gives that great place even as Christ forgave you the even part.
If you've been forgiven, how can you not forgive?
And so here is this beautiful place that when we look at these things that we can start with, humble yourself in the sight of the Lord and He will lift you up.
Who do you trust?
And there's always this possibility that we're wrong.
It's terrible when you're wrong and you think you're right and then you give this long place and then someone puts something and you go, oh, you're right, I was wrong.
That's a hard pill to swallow.
So here we see this place that
We move on to Benjamin is called guilty, but united the brother stand versus 10 through 13.
And he said, now also let it be according to your words.
So okay, he with whom is found shall be my slave and you shall be blameless.
Meaning you go on.
I like it.
They're not even talking about the money.
It's only about the cup.
Then each man speedily let down a sack to the ground and each opened a sack.
So he searched, he began with the oldest and left off with the youngest.
And no one's saying anything about the money.
They're feeling uncomfortable about it, but no cup.
That's the point.
And the cup was found in Benjamin's sack.
Then they tore their clothes and each man loaded his donkey and returned to the city.
The picture of ripping the clothes through the scripture is always this.
It's a picture of tearing your heart like my heart's ripped out that this just happened.
This is the hardest thing I've ever heard because they all know this means Benjamin dies.
Dad's heart's going to be broken.
We've had this long thing about coming down.
How do we go home?
And we're going to tell Dad Benjamin died because he stole the cup.
And you know, at this point, no one knows.
No one knows that Benjamin didn't steal the cup.
And that's one of the key parts of the story.
What was the agreement?
Whoever stole the cup dies, becomes slave.
Everybody else go home.
You're blameless.
And notice what happens in verse 13.
They tore their clothes.
Each man loaded his donkey and returned it to the city of Egypt.
They could have said, Benjamin, we're sorry.
You did it.
You're on your own.
We're heading back to dad.
We're going back to our wife and our kids and our comfortable tent and all those type of things.
And notice what these
10 boys do.
Men now, they're 40 to 60 years old at this point.
Benjamin's probably around 20-ish.
They load up and they won't leave their brother.
If we were to say what was God's purpose through this whole process, it's the building nation who's going to come into Egypt and they're going to be there for 400 years.
If they came in divided, they would have never made it more than 40.
They come in united and they stand through the harshness of, at one point it will come and then came a pharaoh who knew not Joseph.
They'll all be put in the slavery and God's gonna forge a mighty nation.
They're gonna leave and they're gonna go take the land that was promised to them.
They're gonna stand for 4,000 years.
We're gonna watch the news tonight and with baited breath and tomorrow and hope to see that God does what God will do, but that nation will stand no matter what happens tonight and hear these boys are.
these men it's because they said united we stand divided we fall they would not leave their brothers and they all came in and I love Psalm 144
the United Nations under God.
Happy are the people who are in such a state.
Happy are the people whose God is the Lord.
Psalm 33 verse 12, blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, the people he has chosen as his own inheritance.
And you know, that's my prayer for the United States of America under
You know, one nation under God, again, that we can come back to that place.
It's only going to take this great revival that's going to have to happen for us to come back to that place.
But say this, I don't wish a trowel on anybody.
I don't.
I've been through enough of them.
They're hard.
I'd rather not.
I sometimes, you know, I just come to that place like, man, isn't life just hard enough?
You know, then we get a trowel.
It's hard enough every day going and living the life that we live in these type of things.
And I don't wish a trowel on anybody.
But I'll say this after being through a few trowels.
If you do find yourself in a trowel, two things.
We as a church will stand with you, even if you're wrong.
will not leave you.
We're not going to abandon you even if you're wrong in your trowel.
The trowel has come upon you as a storm of correction that God has to do some correcting.
But then there's storms of direction and God wants to steer you.
You know, there's Jonah, the storm of
correction.
He was just in the wrong place.
God had the correct in Paul.
It was storm of direction.
I got to blow you off this trail, off this ship, you know, to put you on this island so that you can preach Christ to me to these people they need to hear.
God will use both of them in our lives.
Sometimes they're simultaneous.
Sometimes we don't know the difference, but lots of times they're very clear to us.
And what I want to say is for whom the Lord loves He chastens.
And it is what a place and what a
Glory to be that God would say, I want to raise you up.
And I want to take you from infants, from babes to mighty warriors.
In 1 John 2, 12, I write to you little children because your sins are forgiven you.
for His name's sake.
I write to you fathers because you've known Him who from the beginning, I write to you young men because you have overcome the wicked one.
I write to you little children because you've known the father.
I've written to you fathers because you have known Him who is from the beginning.
I've written to you young men because you are strong.
And the Word of God abides in you.
And you have overcome the wicked one.
God will take you through the trials that we read of these boys of the Jacobson, the nation of Israel to turn these men into warriors.
And man, what a place it is that God would call us and say,
I don't want you sitting in the life of ease and comfort, and I'm gonna put you in a place that's gonna turn you into a warrior for God.
So that you can go and change a whole world, that you can change a family, you can change a place that I put you, and it's gonna mean that I'm gonna have to put you in some difficult places.
But oh, the Lord will do, and here's what the Lord has done.
And then we end with this third
grouping Judah intercedes for the family.
And we're going to see him start getting real.
We're going to see some reality show up.
And we're going to just see, of course, God's amazing.
We're going to see a picture of intercession, Judah intercedes for the family.
And then God can really do a work.
And then we're going to see this amazing demonstration of mercy.
Verse 14 and 15.
So Judah and his brothers came to Joseph's house, and he was still there, and they fell before him on the ground.
And Joseph said to them, what deed is this you have done?
Did you not know that such a man as I can certainly practice divination?
Of course, we, again, he doesn't practice divination.
We know that.
What was divination, by the way?
It still happens today in some of these places.
such places as Haiti and various Trinidad and various dark places of the world.
But they'll do such things as, you know, I take a
I take a chicken and I cut it in half and then I cut the liver in half, then supposedly I'm looking at the liver and I can examine one side to the other side and make a determination that the spirits are telling me to do this or to do that.
The time of Joseph, Egypt, historical writings type thing, divination would be, I take this cup and I put wine in it and then I sprinkle some gold or silver dust in it and I stir it around, I let the sun light hit it,
then I look into it and the way it divides and particleizes and these type of things sinks or rises and it goes, oh, this is saying, go forward or, oh, this is saying, stay put, you know, just stuff that we look at like that's ridiculous.
But people are still doing it.
People still have their definitions.
And I just want to say with all seriousness, it's not innocence.
And I just beg that we would be on guard with it and speak to anyone that comes upon our path, Dungeons and Dragons.
It's not a game.
There's a demonic realm.
And I can tell you, my friend, my friend, he's still broken to this day.
He said, my son took his life.
And he goes, and I still carry the guilt because
When he started playing Dungeons and Dragons, I saw it.
I saw him start slipping away.
He's a pastor, my friend.
And then he said, his son's starting getting into Dungeons and Dragons.
And he says, Ray, I'm telling you, that is what the demonic realm is.
that brought him in to believe what he did was the way to go and the only way out of whatever the situation.
Ouija boards, high school kids think it's some fun thing.
They get together, tarot cards,
psychic hotlines, horoscopes, all these type of things.
And I know people can sit and go, man, you're being a little overzealous or a little legalistic.
Now, I've lived too long to tell you it's real.
There's a demonic realm.
And I've shared this story before, I believe, but one of my closest friends in high school, he's a real character.
And he loved to just, you know,
poke people, he was hilarious.
Just, he was hilarious.
When we were in high school, he would, I remember one day I was in the science class and I was already seated and he comes in, the bell's late and he comes in and he would do this walk.
So the whole class was looking, Tisha's looking at him and he had stopped in the bathroom, got toilet paper, rolled toilet paper to make it look like a marijuana
cigarette and he put it in his mouth and he comes walking in like this and he looks at the teacher and he goes oh and he hurries up and he puts it in his pocket and the teacher called the police and so the police come they take him out of class and this whole big thing and he goes what it's toilet paper and so you just like tortured the teachers and of course at that age we enjoyed that type of stuff it gave gave some break in the day and these type of things and what's so funny about it is Bobby
He's a high school principal now.
So that's like our greatest laughter of all jobs that you would have.
You'd become a high school principal.
And what a payback is that.
But we were going to school in the same area down in Florida.
We grew up in Western Pennsylvania.
So we're 1,000 miles from home.
And Bobby,
He goes, you're not going to believe, Ray, I was bicycling.
And I was bicycling down such and such, you know, avenue.
He goes, you know the avenue.
I go, oh, yeah, we know the avenue.
That's like the psychic hotline avenue.
Terracard reading, every house, you know, poems reading and this and type.
And we said, man, that is just demonic avenue.
And he goes, well, you know, some bicycling.
And one of them was getting, was out at the mailbox getting their mail.
And he goes, you know me.
I go, I know you.
And he goes, I stop.
And I was like, I am going to entertain myself.
And he stops.
And he's like, hey, so I think your phony proved to me why you're not.
And he said that person, obviously tapping into the monochrome, said, well, let me ask you a question.
Does the word Mount Vernon mean anything to you?
And he said, and then they said, and does the word Elizabeth forward mean anything to you?
And he's like, I'm out of here.
We grew, he grew up, he lived in the neighborhood called Mount Vernon.
And we went to high school and a high school called Elizabeth forward.
And we're a thousand miles away and we're several years away, no other way except a demonic realm there.
And he goes,
And he's laughing at himself.
He goes, Ray, you want to hear something even funnier?
He goes, you know, I've ridden the bike thousands of miles because that's what he does.
He rides hundreds of miles a week.
That's his big extra.
He goes, Ray, I didn't even make it a mile.
And I wrecked my bike on the street.
He goes, I couldn't get out of there fast enough.
All joking aside, an interesting story that's a true story, but you know what?
We don't need to be messing with Devination Cups.
And I really speak to you, youth.
Don't even think about it.
It's not a game.
Don't even tread into those things.
There's a dark realm there.
It's a portal and it's a place that the evil one works.
So verse 16, Joseph, he's not
doing divination stuff, but verse 16, then Judah, and of course, the boys are probably thinking he has the ability, because remember, he did the one in 40 million probability when he set them in order at dinner last chapter.
Then Judah said, what shall we say to my Lord?
What shall we speak?
Or how shall we clear ourselves?
God has found out the iniquity of your servants.
Here we are, my Lord slaves, both we and he also
whom the cup was found.
Beautiful.
I'm gonna read it with emphasis.
I want you to see in this verse the word we.
Benjamin's the one who's found guilty, but notice Judah interceding, representing the rest of the boys.
No one challenges.
Then Judah said, what shall we, plural, say to my Lord?
What shall we, plural, speak?
How shall we, plural, clear ourselves?
God has found out the iniquity of your plural servants.
Here we, plural, are my Lord's slaves, plural, both we, plural, and he, singular, also with whom the cup was found.
He is making the statement, one for all and all for one.
United we stand, divided we fall.
If God was looking to form and forge the nation as last week's study and title was, here it is Mission Accomplished.
They could have went home, left Benjamin.
That was what the outcome was.
Whoever has the cup dies, becomes a slave, everyone else, you go home, you're kind of blameless, mean you could even come back for food again.
And here they all stay in this We Plural.
And it's such a picture for the nation.
of Israel.
It's a nation, picture for the nation of America.
But boy, let it be a picture.
Let it be a wonderful picture of the picture of what a church should be, the body of Christ.
Two great passages in the scriptures that I love.
You know, John the Baptist, he's beheaded for preaching.
You know, you shouldn't be with her and if she's not your wife, it's your brother's wife.
Verse 27 of Mark 6, immediately the king sent an executioner and commanded his head to be brought, and he went and beheaded him in prison.
Brought his head on a platter and gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother.
Whole nother story for a whole nother message.
But verse 29, when his disciples heard of it, they came and took away his corpse and laid it in a tomb.
Picture resemblance for Samuel 31, Saul,
Now verse 11, when the inhabitants of J. Beth Gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul, all the valiant men arose and traveled all night, they took
The Philistines put his body on the wall after the victory over Israel.
And here comes these valiant men.
And that's important for here's what God calls valiant men and valiant women.
Valiant men arose and traveled all night and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his son from the wall of Beth Shane.
And they came to J. Beth and burned them there.
And then they took their bones and buried them under the tasmas tree at J. Beth and fasted for seven days.
men and women of God do.
We stand together.
We are willing to go fight for one another.
These men who went to get John the Baptist, John's considered an enemy of the state.
Saul, he's considered the enemy of the state.
These men could have just said, well, it's only a body.
We watch Israel today, what they will go through.
Today's tomorrow's hostage exchange includes the deceased bodies.
because that's the value, like that is to have their body as an insult and a disgrace, this decrement to our people.
We will send soldiers in to go fight to bring a body home.
And here's this thing that these men here do in this story, and I think there's just a place for us as church, that's what we have to do.
We have to fight for one another.
Saul, man, you're way out there.
we would go into in total where you had been spoken, your kingdom is done.
And yet these men would go get the body of a man who was in the wrong.
John the Baptist, he's just preaching the word and they would risk knowing we go get this body, we could find ourselves killed as well, but they go at their own risk because we plural stand with one another.
And what a picture for the church and you know,
plus time the world just wants us to throw each other away after a falling or a failing.
And here we see a we.
These boys don't know, I keep calling them boys, they're men, they don't know the Benjamin's innocent.
And yet they will go and be willing to put themselves in the slavery, even death.
So verse 17 through 20, but he said, far be it from me that I should do so, the man in whom
whose hand the cup was found, he shall be my slave and for you go up in peace to your father.
Then Judah came near.
He's putting his life at risk because he's going to challenge and question the second most powerful man in the world of saying, I heard what you say, but I'd like you to consider something else.
This is a threat to Joseph's respect.
Then Judah came near to him and said, Oh, my Lord, please let your servant speak a word in your Lord's hearing and do not let your anger burn against your servant for you are even like Pharaoh.
He knows he's risking his life.
Verse 19, my Lord asked his servants, he's going to rehash saying, have you a father or brother?
And we said to my Lord, we have a father, an old man, and a child of his old age, whom is young.
His brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother's children, and his father loves him.
Judas, now, if we really follow this, we just read earlier that, oh, we're guilty because of selling him.
They're coming to the place of what they believe.
Joseph is dead because of what we've done.
He's literally coming.
that he's getting real before the Lord and he's becoming specific.
And what's the lessons learned here for us?
You know what we can say all the time.
Lord, forgive me, I'm a sinner.
Forgive me, you know, you know, I'm a sinner.
Your prayer life will change.
Your confessional point in your prayer life will change when you come and say, not just say, Lord, I'm a sinner.
Forgive me, but you come and say, Lord, forgive me.
That was bitterness.
I unleashed bitterness.
I unleash wrath and anger.
I slandered my brother.
I got malice towards my sister.
And then all I say, now God can work because we're actually getting down to really what we're saying.
It's easy to be a general sinner and we can walk away and feel, well, we're all sinners.
Don't we hear that?
We're all sinners.
But when you stand up and you go, this is my sin specifically.
Now God can step in and do something.
Here he is working here in Judah's heart.
In verse 21 through 28, reading through this, then you said to your servant, bring him down to me that I may set my eyes on him.
And we said to my Lord, the lad cannot leave his father, for if he should leave his father, his father would die.
It's gonna break dad's heart if he loses his son, but you said to your servants, unless your youngest brother comes down,
with you, you shall see my face no more."
So it was when we went up to your servant, my father, that we told him the words of my Lord.
And our father said, go back and buy us little food.
But we said, we cannot go down.
If our youngest brother is with us, then we will go down.
For we may not see this man's face unless our youngest brother is with us.
Verse 27, then your servant, my father, said to us, you know that my wife bore me to son.
So here's Dad speaking, verse 28.
And the one went out from me, and I said, surely he has torn to pieces, and I have not seen him since.
You know, it's amazing in this that we just read.
Joseph's 22 years, this is about two years into the famine, 13 years, Potiphar's house in prison, seven years of plenty, two years into the famine.
Joseph is 22 years into the
the betrayal of his brothers.
And for 22 years, he has no idea what did they say to Dad.
When they got home and I wasn't there, what did they say?
You sit there in loneliness and you have to think of what it could possibly, you think about it.
You can come up with a lot of thoughts.
We know they're not going to say we sold him, Dad.
They hate me, so what would they come home and say?
They come home and say, Dad, you know the money you gave Joseph to come for provisions or to come and he took it and he ran off with loose company.
He's out doing things of the world down there in
such and such land.
He's drinking dead.
He's doing drugs.
You can't believe it, Dad.
And he said he doesn't want anything more with your rules.
They could have went home and said that.
They could have came with all kinds of things.
And Joseph sits here and he doesn't know.
But you know what else?
You would do it and I would do it.
20 plus years.
Why did Dad never come look for me?
Where was my dad?
Why didn't he send people out?
He has servants.
Why didn't he send servants out and say, I'm a man of wealth.
When Joseph left, they were a man of wealth.
I could send, I could have sent 10 servants in 10 directions and you go in those directions until you find my son and you bring him back to me.
He had the means.
He had the wealth to do it.
And Joseph had to sit there in all those years because why didn't dad do that?
Why did my dad abandon me?
And now Joseph finally gets this piece.
It must have pierced his heart because the story that my dad thought was he was torn to pieces and that he was dead.
And that's why dad didn't come look for me.
And I just, I know I'm going to wrap this up and God bless you, but I know there's
You're here.
And some of you, your mom, your dad, your loved one, whoever that may be, whatever that sits, they didn't come.
And you're sitting there and you're wondering, why didn't you come for me?
Why wasn't I worth fighting for?
Wasn't I worth investing and spending time and money?
Why didn't you come and look for me?
And why has it been all this time that I have been alone?
And you're wondering, why did they leave me?
And you may never find that out.
But once again, I come back to that plural we.
We need to recognize one another that we can be the healing bridge.
Man, we understand.
That must have been hard when your dad left you, when your mother abandoned you, when your spouse ran off.
But you know what?
We were going to stand with you.
You always have us and you always have a place here.
But of course, that's gonna take.
We gotta get to know each other.
We gotta spend time with each other.
We actually have to pray and then ask each other.
So verse 29 through 31.
But if you take this one also from me, the calamity befalls him, you shall bring down my gray hair with sorrow to the grave.
Now therefore, when I came to your servant, my father and the lad is not with us, since his life is bound up in the lad's life, dad's life.
He loves Benjamin.
He's the last of Rachel, his first wife.
It will happen when he sees that the lad is not with us, that he will die.
So your servant will bring down the gray hair of your servant, our father, with the sorrow to the grave.
Dad's heart will break if we show up without Benjamin.
And then verse 32, 33, for your servant became surety for the lad to my father, saying, if I do not bring him back to you, then I shall bear the blame before my father forever.
Now therefore, please let your servant remain instead.
Trade places.
of the lad as a slave to my Lord and let the lad go up with my brother.
Beautiful picture of life of intercession.
I think what I love about this picture of the life of intercession, Jesus, what is the greatest commandment, Matthew 22, in the law, and Jesus said, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, and with all your mind.
This is the first and great commandment, and the second is like it, you shall love the neighbor as yourself.
Of these two commandments, hang all the law and the prophet.
Verse one of 45 is gonna start with, like Joseph can't take it, his heart's just gonna like.
And here we see Judah interceding on behalf of a heartbroken father, the love of a father, love the Lord your God, our Father with all your heart, mind, soul.
And then he's interceding for his neighbor, just this beauty.
You wanna move the heart of God.
Joseph, a picture of Jesus, you pray like that.
You pray in love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul.
But you know what, Lord, I'm gonna pray for my brothers and sisters,
Who is your neighbor?
And in the last verse, for now, verse 34, how shall I go up to my father if the lad is not with me?
At least perhaps I see the evil that would come upon my father.
I just close with this.
Do you see what he's asking for?
Mercy.
I have nothing else.
I tried to convince you that I wasn't a thief through logic.
I tried to convince you of this, of what's happened to my dad and how it will break his heart.
But in the end, Judah comes representing the we, the corporate family, all that we have left to ask you is mercy.
Will you give us mercy?
And that's the title of today's message.
Have you ever begged for mercy?
I think we all have because all of us have come to Christ.
Do you remember what it was like when you were begging and asking for mercy?
Nothing else would matter.
Anything life, prosperity, possessions, nothing.
mattered, except it was like the next breath, I just want mercy.
And maybe there's a situation you've been in your life and you've come to somebody.
You know you're wrong.
You know you have nothing else.
And all that you want is just give me mercy.
When you beg for it, you know what I'm saying.
These boys are saying, just give us mercy.
And we're going to see he will.
next week's study, perfect passage for baptism, speaking of forgiveness and the mercy of the Lord.
But I'll ask you this as we close and you can think about it while we sing our last, have you ever given mercy?
Ephesians 4, 30 through 32, what a context for mercy.
putting off and putting on, forgiving one another as Christ, forgave us.
But if you've ever wanted mercy and someone's given it to you, it's like the breath of life.
And then there's a place when somebody comes and they're asking for mercy, they know that they're wrong.
So you don't have to worry about the other stuff, about control and all.
They know that they're wrong and they're just begging you for mercy.
Will you give it?
Father, you've overheard.
We're all in these places and what a passage of scripture before us.
These boys have nothing left after all these years except a beg for mercy.
They are wrong.
Joseph thrown in the pit and he was begging for mercy and they left as we studied and they had lunch.
cold and callous to the cry of his heart, but now they need mercy.
And they know what mercy is now because they need it.
Lord, and He gives it.
Just like you've gave us the mercy and grace, mercy, not getting what we deserve, which is wrath, grace, getting
what we don't deserve and its love and joy and peace.
What a passage you give us and what a pondering we have before us, Lord.
I think it would be fitting in everyone's life at some point today or this week, asking for mercy or being asked for mercy.
Let your word that spoke through your Holy Spirit lead the answer.
And I pray this in your name
Amen.